Feasibility Analysis (consider all aspects time, talent, staff, etc.)

Expected Benefits – tangible and intangible

Estimated Costs

Make use of business tools to assess payback period, breakeven analysis

Benefits:
Reducing the risk of insuring dangerous drivers will save a lot of money in payouts
Underwriters will be more productive and have a better experience with a more comprehensive MVR system
Automated tasks will reduce the workload and cost of employing processors 
Clients may experience higher satisfaction with a way to check their policies and assess prospective drivers
Data will be generated that can be analyzed to improve processes and policies

Costs:
The project will costs thousands of dollars to develop, implement and maintain.
Users will need to be trained in and may experience reduced productivity during that time. 
By ordering $0.06 MVR checks in addition to better MVR ordering rules, the costs of ordering MVRs may increase slightly.
Processors may experience a reduction in their workforce, they will need to be retrained, reassigned or terminated. 
Clients may experience frustration if one of their drivers is no longer eligible for insurance due to a violation.






Feasibility Analysis
1.	Operational Feasibility
a.	Current system is not comprehensive for Federate Insurance's needs. There is no automation, clients are not well tracked, and potentially dangerous drivers are insured when an MVR could have prevented that. 
b.	Users will need to be trained in and may experience reduced productivity during that time. 
c.	Underwriters will have a more comprehensive system that will increase their productivity and satisfaction
d.	Clients will have another channel to manage their policies and communicate with federated
e.	Processors may experience a reduction in workforce as some of their tasks are automated
f.	A database driven web application is one of the most effective ways to manage data and automate tasks
g.	Management supports this project and are prepared to commit the appropriate resources necessary
h.	Steps must be taken to ensure the privacy of people's MVRs.
i.	Customers may become frustrated if they have a driver that is no longer eligible to be insured due to a violation
j.	 
2.	Technical Feasibility 
a.	Web app will require a development team and web servers
b.	The web servers will require a small team to maintain and secure them. 
c.	A prototype will be created in this class
d.	The new system will provide a good platform for current and future needs with MVRs 
e.	The system will need to integrate with state MVR ordering systems, which may change in time. 
f.	Web applications are highly scalable as volume and users increase
g.	
3.	Economic Feasibility 
a.	The system will cost time and money to create and maintain. This will require work from the Federated development teams and the procurement and maintenance of web servers and networks.
b.	The system will also require new training for many of the users.
c.	The system will order $0.06 MVR's for each driver every month, and $6-$10 MVRs every 6 months to a year. This may slightly increase costs
d.	Due to more accurate monitoring and vetting of drivers, federated insurance can help reduce the risk that they will insure an unsafe driver and can avoid paying millions while keeping their customers safer. 
e.	The new system will generate information on driver violations and when compared to accidents can provide a lot of analytics to federated to help improve their policies and procedures
f.	Many tasks performed by processors will be automated, which will reduce costs but may require employees to be retrained or let go. 
g.	
4.	Schedule Feasibility 
a.	We are looking to create a prototype before the end of this semester.
b.	A full scale application will require several more months of development, testing and implementing, followed by a training period.
c.	The system can be deployed in stages, underwriter and processor views, then automation of MVR orders, then the customer portal can be added later. 
d.	The speed of the project can be increased by the amount of resources Federated puts towards it.  
e.	The prototype will be developed in a similar way to how the full project will be created. 
f.	
